# Benzene-Prediction

Air pollution occurs when harmful or excessive quantities of substances including gases, particulates and biological molecules are introduced into Earth’s atmosphere. It may cause diseases, allergies and death of humans; it may also cause harm to other living organisms such as animals and food crops and may damage the natural or built environment. Human activity and natural processes can both generate air pollution. Indoor air pollution and poor urban air quality are listed as two of the world’s worst toxic pollution problems in the 2008 Blacksmith Institute World’s Worst Polluted Places report. According to the 2014 World Health Organization report, air pollution in 2012 caused the deaths of around 7 million people worldwide, an estimate roughly echoed by one from the International Energy Agency.

The United States Environmental Protection Agency (U. S. EPA) classifies benzene as “carcinogenic to humans. Long-term exposure to high levels of benzene can cause leukemia and cancers of the blood- forming organs (bone marrow, lymph nodes, and spleen). Benzene is a widely used chemical formed from both natural processes and human activities. Benzene is produced naturally by volcanoes and forest fires and is a natural part of crude oil, gasoline and tobacco smoke. Industries utilize benzene to make plastics, resins, synthetic fibers, rubber lubricants, dyes, detergents, drugs and pesticides.

In this project, we have performed predictive analysis on two datasets obtained from Kaggle. One is on Hazardous Air Pollutants that contained information of all the toxic air pollutants tracked by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Other data contained the wildfire information caused across United States and their contribution in increasing the benzene level. So, to perform analysis on these datasets that is to predict benzene level in air and observe wildfire trends, we performed three statistical models – Linear Regression, Random Forest, and Decision Trees. Then we determined which model gives us the best predictive results on the two consolidated datasets that we analyzed.
